When you find out the 'what' something is, you can learn organically. For example, a few years ago I realized that everything surrounding us was designed by someone. So every time I look at something I learn something new about 'design'. I call this Organic Learning. There are three things happening because of this:
- There's a higher effort in efficient storage of knowledge in your brain. Some things you see have no lessons. The ones that do need to be remembered forever, and that's a hard thing to do. You need some energy for that to happen. This is related to 'Compunded Learning', which is about having too many 'whats' from different areas and how some lessons from sales can also be applied to product marketing, engineering, or other things.
- You become infinitely analytical. In everything I see, I try to learn something related to everything else. If you have too many 'whats', you become super analytical. The analysis becomes critical, and you can become negative about everything you see. Even if you find out critiques, you need to stay positive. That's because when trying to extract lessons from something, it's as important the things that were done right as the things that weren't.
- You need to constantly group/classify in higher hierarchies. For example, when you store that knowledge in your brain, you cannot have lots of 'folders' like product marketing, product design, SaaS design, software design, etc. which are related. It's better to have higher abstractions of those lessons, that can be applied to as many things as possible, therefore stored in higher hierarchical folders.