- data ownership is extremely important. have a mindset of: a) capturing x10 more data than other platforms do b) own workflows end-to-end to own those data (next point) c) standard generalized integrations (e.g. Slack, Google Drive, etc.) but maximum 1 custom integration per customer and ONLY if that integration could be used for other customers (benefits 2+ customers at least)
- End-to-end workflows — owning the user experience is key. And having the end-to-end workflow allows you to always be the one application/platform being used. If you own part of a workflow, and the rest of the workflow is with ChatGPT and/or Slack, you’re at risk at being squeezed out with higher-capability AI models.
- Highest-leverage decisions in workflows. Some focus on things that could be automated deterministically and/or are low-value admin. For example, payroll automation already existed. Payroll budgeting, analysis, forecasting, and callibration are a process worth exploring with AI — but not payroll automation. Others are things like ‘parsing resumes’ — which has being done for the past 15 years and is low value add. Compare that to ‘decide who’s best for a given role amongst thousands of candidates who applied and who didn’t apply and automate the workflow up to scheduling first interview with personalized outreach messaging and post-interview transcript processing/analysis. Other low-value add is an AI that assists to enter data for pre-onboarding (e.g. identity documentation, bank account, etc.) but the thing is that they’ll have to do it manually either way so an AI UX is just more confusing and adds no value.
- The regular defensibility still applies (Porter forces, [Network effects](https://www.nfx.com/post/network-effects-manual) ), but change (some more than others) as products, user habits and business models change